Dist::Zilla::App::Command::bakeini

"bakeini" is an "App::Command" module for "Dist::Zilla" that enables one
to have two versions of their "dist.ini", one which contains their
bundle, and the other which is generated from the first in a static and
portable way, without requiring the bundle to be present.

This allows contributors and test targets to have a mostly "static"
configuration that is less prone to randomly breaking your dists every
time you change something significant in your bundle.

It also allows contributors to only need the dependencies they really
need, not the superset of dependencies your bundle probably implies.

And at the same time, you still have the flexibility and power you
normally have with a centralised configuration stored in a bundle, which
you can roll out on demand, instead of having the roll out automatically
propagate every time the bundle gets updated.

  DISCUSSION

  The Quibbles

There's several long standing point of contention surrounding the use of
bundles.

A few poignant ones that bother me are:

*   Bundles change over time and configuration parameters can change in
    validity

    For example, I might add a requirement in a later incarnation of a
    bundle that a given parameter be specified. But that creates a
    confusing backwards compatibility problem for people who merely want
    to check out and build the code.

*   Some contributors tend not to like dealing with bundles due to
    bundle complexity

    Bundles often declare far more dependencies than contributors need
    to build one specific distribution, and the bundle obscures the
    visibility of what plugins are being used.

    This also manifests as a difficulty to work around problems produced
    by bundles such as bundles "use"-ing broken modules, which is not
    straight forward to iron out with the @Filter bundle.

    @Filter is also complicated for end users who are not familiar with
    "dzil" to use, and @Filter also lacks abilities to re-order plugins
    if that is necessary to avoid a bug.

    Additionally, routing configuration to a single plugin within a
    bundle can be confusing with messy syntax, especially if the bundle
    doesn't "do" "ConfigSlicer" or something like that.

    And the effort of learning and using those tools is high if all you
    want to do is *temporarily* change a build setting for the point of
    local use or local testing.

  The Benefits and Method

So this command attempts to avoid these problems by separating the
bundle from its configuration until configuration is wanted updated.

This means "Dist::Zilla" based distributions DON'T have their build
configuration radically changed simply because somebody upgraded a
bundle, and the configuration is *MORE* local to the distribution
instead of being more global.

This means bundle specific configuration demands ONLY need to be
satisfied during the baking process, but NOT every subsequent build, and
are thus NOT prone to causing a sea of unusable "dist.ini"s if a bundle
gets changed.

  The Downsides

The biggest known downside of this approach at present is with much more
advanced bundle usage.

Because the bundle itself is being taken out of the loop, that means
"dist.ini" will NOT be able to automatically have new plugins added to
it in response to changes in the tree. "dzil bakeini" will have to be
run subsequently to take tree changes into consideration and emit
updated configuration.

And because the bundle itself is being taken out of the loop, that means
"ENV" based controls in bundles will be bound at the time of calling
"dzil bakeini", which means if you're like @ETHER and have an "Airplane
mode", then:

  AIRPLANE=1 dzil build

Won't work on a baked "dist.ini", and you will instead need:

  AIRPLANE=1 dzil bakeini && dzil build

Though, that could be beneficial too depending on how you use it.

  # Get on the plane
  AIRPLANE=1 dzil bakeini

  # dzil runs everything in airplane mode now
  dzil build

  # Get off the plane
  dzil bakeini

  # dzil runs normally
  dzil build

INSTALLATION

This is a Perl module distribution. It should be installed with whichever
tool you use to manage your installation of Perl, e.g. any of

  cpanm .
  cpan  .
  cpanp -i .

Consult http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html for further instruction.
Should you wish to install this module manually, the procedure is

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2015 by Kent Fredric
<kentfredric@gmail.com>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.
